You ask him about the weather, how was the trip up here, just anything to get
him to talk. Or her to talk.
Now you're recording. Now press pause at the same time. Now you're recording.
Now press pause. Now press stop. Play. And always make sure the red record
light's on, otherwise you're not doing anything. Right now it's recording? The
red light's on, it's recording. The red light is not on, it's not recording.
Testing. One, two, three, four. Testing. This is a science fiction radio show.
Testing. One, two, three, four, five, six. Testing.
About people with unusual lifestyles, and they interviewed me nonstop on TV for
an hour and 45 minutes, and then spent another 45 minutes going around the place
of close-ups on various interesting things in the collection. I don't know what
that'll all be boiled down to. By the way, I've always meant to ask if somebody
knew, I don't know, did your collection open in the middle of it? I don't know.
I don't know. Okay, test. Very good. When did you first get interested or become
exposed to science fiction? Well, I'm afraid I wasted the first nine years of my
life, but in October 1926 I was passing by a newsstand, and the issue of Amazing
Stories for that month jumped right off the stand, grabbed hold of me, said,
take me home little boy, you will love me, and it will become a way of life. And
in those early days there was just the one magazine a month, and it was like a
man in a desert who sees an oasis. You know, you head for any drop of water you
can find. I began combing the magazine markets looking at the mundane
periodicals. In Liberty Magazine occasionally I found something new by H.G.
Wells or Saks Romer with his Fu Manchu super scientific villain. And in the
pages of Argosy I discovered that this magazine, besides having westerns and
romance and air war and whatnot, that they generally had some science fiction
going. Some of the pioneer authors of Ray Cummings and R.F. Starzl and Victor
Russo, and there was a lot of Burroughs, Mars and Venus and Pellucidar and
those, and also in Blue Book Magazine. By 1930 we had about seven magazines. We
had the amazing quarterlies in addition to the monthlies, and Science Wonder had
come along, which also had a quarterly publication, and Air Wonder, and then
there was Astounding Stories of Super Science started up, which is still going
today under the modified title Analog Science Fiction. And that original amazing
from April 1926 is still being published and in my collection. By 1929 a rather
mundane mother began, had begun to be somewhat worried about my collecting
instincts. She had counted my magazines, said, Son, do you realize you have 27
of these magazines? Now if you continue at that rate till you were a grown man,
why, you might have 100 magazines. Well, my dear mother lived till nearly 94 and
was in my own home at the end of her life. The home was now four stories, 17
rooms, three garages in which you couldn't park a toothpick, because we
eliminated the cars from them and put in shelves, and that is totaled with the
Science Fiction collections. As a matter of fact, whenever I see a garage sale
nowadays, I buy another garage. I have two extra garages that are filling up
around Los Angeles. So the collection has grown from that one single magazine
back in October 1926. Here I am on the verge of my 55th anniversary in the
field. Now there are 300,000 magazines and books and manuscripts and props from
movies and artwork and stills. It's just, I stop at nothing, I even try to get
space stamps from all over the world.
It wouldn't be any stretch of the imagination to say that you have probably the
most complete collection of Science Fiction anywhere. Well, let's put it this
way. I've been on both sides of the Iron Curtain. I've been upside down in
Tasmania. I've been a thousand miles from the North Pole. I've been in Hungary
and Czechoslovakia and East Germany. I've been to Japan and if there's any
greater collection, it must be underground or well hidden. Naturally, I'm so
intensely interested in the subject matter that I seek out collectors everywhere
in the world. There are maybe half a dozen of us who have equal collections of
magazines, that is to say about 99% complete. And there are certainly collectors
with enormous numbers of books. But I go beyond that into autographs of the
authors and the motion picture people. I would have Bela Lugosi would sign Count
Dracula and Frederick Marx who got an Academy Award for Jekyll and Hyde. He was
signed for me both as Jekyll and Hyde and I got Boris Karloff to sign as the
Frankenstein monster and the mummy. And so, the last 50 years I've wound up with
125,000 stills from all of the fantastic movies ever made in the world. And 18
,000 lobby cards and uncounted thousands of clippings. I get Hollywood Reporter
and Variety and Publishers Weekly and I constantly cut out everything concerning
science fiction and fantasy and file it away. Did that lead to your involvement
with the magazine that you edited? Well, you've got the past tense on that. It's
very much alive and well. In the last 23 years I've done 179 issues. I don't
even think of it as editing famous monsters of Filmland magazine. It's pretty
much a one-man show. I virtually write everything in every issue of it. I
figured out at the rate it's going that in 1984 we'll reach issue number 200.
I've got a little grip behind it.
This is the great thing about tape. See, we can just stop for a second. Sorry,
no problem. No problem.
David, what should the level be in his microphone? It's not even reaching the
red, not even half a red. Oh, it's close. This will be copied and equalized.
However we do it, it's good enough that we're in here. We've got some electronic
wizardry gadgets that we put this through before it actually gets out. It's
edited. Test. Okay. What I'm going to do now is get over to the... Bill, do you
want to ask some questions on collections? Bill is our resident collector. Yeah,
whenever it's convenient, sure. Okay. Let's get my train of thought back on the
track here.
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions?
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want
to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you
want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill,
do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions?
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill,
do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want
to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you
want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want
to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you
want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want
to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you
want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill,
do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want
to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you
want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill,
do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want
to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some
questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want
to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you
want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill,
do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want
to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you
want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do
you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill,
do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill,
do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some
questions?
Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some
questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Bill, do you want to
ask some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask
some questions? Bill, do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want
to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask
some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you
want
to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask
some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some
questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions?
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask some questions?
Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you
want to ask some questions? Do you want to ask some questions? Do you want to
ask questions? Do you want to ask questions? Do you want to ask questions?
Do you want to ask questions? Do you want to ask questions? Do you want to ask
questions? Do you want to ask questions? Do you want to ask questions? Do you
want to ask questions? Do you want to ask questions? Do you want to ask
questions? Do you want to ask questions?
Do you want to ask questions? Thank you, sir. It was a pleasure to meet you.
I've got to ask somebody to ask you.
Okay. Mr. Ackerman, you're known as quite a fan, but to us collectors,
you're also known as the ultimate collector. When did you start collecting
science fiction, and what was your first goal, and how has that goal changed as
far as what you're trying to collect? Well, in October 1926, when I first saw a
science fiction magazine, I was only nine years old, and I don't believe I
realized the periodicity of publications. I guess I thought it was some kind of
a one-time phenomenon, and there would never be another amazing stories. And it
wasn't until some months later in 1928 that I saw amazing stories again. Then I
caught on to the fact that if I watched the newsstands carefully, about every
four weeks, there would be more manna from heaven. So I read the magazine so
quickly that there was nothing coming along for another month that I would re
-read the stories. So I hung on to the magazines because they were very precious
to me, and before I knew it, my mother said I had 27 of them. And by about 1930,
I probably had around 100 of them. And one mad moment in my life, during the
Depression, my parents persuaded me to sell my magazines in order to finance new
ones, because 25 cents was kind of tough to come by when men were starving on
the streets trying to make a living selling apples for a nickel. Well, I did
sell my collection, such as it was, about 1930. And before their very eyes, my
parents saw me becoming weak and waned and listless and lost my appetite. And
about 48 hours was all I could take of that. So I said, okay, okay, you know, go
and buy your magazines back if they mean so much to you. And from that day to
this, I have never passed by a magazine. I just buy every single science fiction
fantasy magazine as fast as they are published, have a standing order for every
paperback to be sent to me, go through Publishers Weekly every seven days, and
Locus and any source whatsoever that instances fantasy magazines and books, and
send off for all of them. And then I go through catalogs from all over the
world. And constantly mining the past, you would think that someday you'd say,
well, I've got it all, but there just seems to be no end to it. A perfect
example. I went to the World Science Fiction Convention down in Australia,
walked a half a block from my hotel, and saw a science fiction book in a window.
And I said, well, I don't have it. I suppose it was published here in Australia.
But I went in and I found it was published in New York seven years earlier, and
despite every review I'd read and every list I'd looked at, I hadn't known of it
until that moment. So I feel my collection is incomplete if someone who's
looking at it suddenly says, oh, don't you have? And then I've got 300,000
things, but I don't have this one particular magazine or book, so I guess I'll
have to get it. How has where you've housed the collection through the years
changed from your humble beginnings till now? Well, it started out in San
Francisco. I had, down in the basement, my dad built me a little den, and I was
able to keep everything in one very small room. Then when I moved back to Los
Angeles where I was born, I lived with my maternal grandparents, and they had a
rather large apartment plus three garages. That's where I started filling up
garages. Before I knew it, they were full. And in the hallway in my maternal
grandparents' home, I began stacking books up to the ceiling, and they gave me
one bedroom. And pretty soon it was difficult even to get into bed because it
was totally surrounded. I remember Life magazine came to me 30 years ago in
1951, took a photo of me in that bedroom. And in 1951, I finally moved into my
first home. That had 13 rooms and three garages. And when I totaled that, and I
really mean totaled it, used as many drawers as weren't absolutely necessary for
clothing. They had books and magazines and put them under the beds. And we
didn't need all the bathrooms, so I filled those. And finally, when my wife, the
university professor and science fiction translator, came home and looked in the
refrigerator one day and found the food was gone, replaced by reels of science
fiction movies, she realized the end had come for that home. So for a couple of
years, we lived in an apartment while I used a 13-room home and three garages
totally for my collection. We started all over again eight years ago with a four
-story, 17-room home and the usual three garages. And now that's bursting at the
seams, and I've added two garages that I'm renting around town. Fortunately, the
mayor of Los Angeles has come to my rescue. He discovered me, came out to the
house, had four librarians come and look at everything, and they estimated there
are approximately 300,000 pieces in the collection. And the city of Los Angeles
in the near future is going to create an actual museum. It won't just be a wing
of the library or anything of that sort, but an actual bonafide science fiction
museum that already, when you're three blocks away, the structure of it will
tell the story. It's just, hey, that's got to be the museum. And the grandson of
Edgar Rice Burroughs has already indicated to me when the museum exists, that
he'd be very happy to have an Edgar Rice Burroughs wing in it and make all of
the first editions available and manuscripts and the artwork by J. Allen, St.
John and others. And I think that Hollywood will very much get into the act once
it exists. And in addition to the props I've been able to acquire on my own,
like Bela Lugosi's Dracula cape and Lon Chaney Sr.'s makeup kit and Life Masks
of Karloff and Peter Lorre and John Carradine and Vincent Price and many of the
animated monsters from King Kong and Harryhausen films that I imagine the Star
Wars people and Alien and so on, they will be all quick to contribute because
everybody will want to be represented in something that is available to the
public seven days a week, people for all over the world to come and see
something like Disneyland and Magic Castle and Universal Tour and so on. Is this
something that the City of Los Angeles will sponsor entirely? Well, I think it
will be in two parts. About the 15th of September, I'm going to go down to the
mayor's office. They tell me that they have found a benefactor who is going to
create a cultural center and make the museum a centerpiece of it. It will be one
thing just to move it out of my home. They estimate it will take $125,000 just
to move it to its final resting place. And surely it costs multi-millions of
dollars for the museum itself. And I don't want it just frozen. The day I give
it away, that's it. It never grows. I hope that 200 years after I'm gone that it
will still be up to date that all the magazines and books and posters and
everything will be added. I think the city feels its responsibility will be to
create the housing for it originally. And then they hope to institute what they
call a support committee. that they're going to invite Robert Block, A. E. Van
Vogt, Ray Bradbury, Steven Spielberg, Steven King, George Lucas, John Landis,
maybe way over there in Sri Lanka, Arthur C. Clarke, all the independently
wealthy science fiction practitioners to see if they would like to pitch in. For
instance, George Lucas, I think, gave something like a million and a half
recently to the university where he had graduated. So some of these high
-powered, financially set people will get in the act and contribute. they'll be
the sponsoring committee to make it possible to go on adding to it. I would like
to see a theater in conjunction with it where you'd be seeing all the classic
movies constantly and to have a fund that I might mastermind as the curator to
purchase fine artwork and something that we should have in such a collection.
For instance, the first edition of Frankenstein, which is rather difficult to
come by because it wasn't a single book, it was three books. And I think at the
present time I know of a set that's around 4,500. And something like the
autograph of Edgar Allan Poe ought to be in the collection. Fortunately, I do
have Wells' autograph because I saw him in person and shook hands with him. And
I've been able to acquire the signature of Mary Shelley, who wrote Frankenstein,
and have a letter by Jules Verne. But these really costly things is going to
have to be people like those I just instanced that will be able to finance him.
Okay. That's all I have. That's all I have, too. Okay. I remember reading
through the magazines and whatnot your efforts to get all this, your museum, the
museum started, you know, so there would be a permanent place to collect those.
When you get it all moved out of your 17-room house, you know, the wall, you see
actual walls in the house. Yeah. Or you've got to start at the first spot on the
first of the shelf and go out and click book one and start filling it up again.
Well, I really won't need a 17-room home anymore. You know, I'll be 65 in a few
months and before I turn around I'll be 70. And obviously nearer the end of my
life than the beginning, so we'll kind of cool it and get a more modest home for
the last years of our life. But I'll always want a guest room and I think I'm
always going to keep several hundred really favorite things around me, my best
books. Your wife must have been very understanding through these years. Well,
fortunately, she was a science fiction fan all of her life before she met up
with me, only she was a fan in French and German. And when she came to this
country around 33 years ago, she gravitated toward becoming a book clerk. And
one day I walked up to her with a whole stack of books to buy and she said, may
I wait on you, sir? And that was her fatal mistake. I've been doing so ever
since.
May I get you to sign my program? Sure. Your autograph is going to be...